The idea of trading butterflies sounds quaint, almost Victorian. But in evocative language tailored to the delicate subject, Matthew Teague braids the perilous work of Indonesia’s butterfly hunters with reminders of his beloved wife, who died of cancer. 1
From its gripping first sentence, this story grabs your attention and never lets go. It's a heart-pounding adventure whose main character—a rushing flood that threatens to kill a team of cavers in a remote region in the country of Georgia—is described in terrifying detail, but fortunately the team never meets it head-on. 1
With lyrical prose and a dry wit, renowned Russian journalist Anatoly Zak shares his personal memories of growing up with Sputnik and how it shaped his life and career. 1
Gulnaz Khan takes readers behind the scenes with Gianni Crea, head key keeper of the Vatican Museums. Crea begins each day in a bunker surrounded by thousands of keys that provide access to one of the world’s most visited and treasured collections. Khan’s narrative reminds us that art—in this case, Michelangelo's masterfully painted ceiling—has an enduring power to unite people regardless of faith. 1
Writer Joanna Connors and photographers Maggie Steeber and Lynn Johnson take readers into uncharted territory. The story of Katie Stubblefield’s face transplant opens with an unforgettable scene—a face on a medical tray. Nearly 9,000 words later, we remain captivated by this tale of hardship, resilience, and inspiration. 1
Craig Welch did a great job pulling together a huge topic—rapid change at the bottom of the world from global warming—into a compelling narrative. The character of Dion Poncet, who was born and spent most of his life in the region, served as a wonderful, human way into the story. Dion has seen many changes over the years in Antarctica, and he helps the reader see them through his eyes. Craig's story puts together complex topics of melting ice, rising seas, shifting weather and currents, and changes in animal patterns, all with a sense of the big picture. 1
Peter Gwin's tale of riding an Arabian horse in Oman has all the elements of an excellent adventure story come together: destination (a fascinating place and culture rendered vividly through the power of words); discovery (how these horses were perfected in Arabia, prized by Bedouins, and historically significant); diversion (are the author's storytelling strides side notes or central to the story?); and drama (will the author survive his wild ride?). Peter's story does what travel stories should: It makes you want to go there. And something more: It makes you want to go there with him. 1
Writer Michele Norris captured the increasing anxiety among whites in the working-class community of Hazleton, Pennsylvania, where a booming number of Latino residents has led some whites to feel that their culture and their standing in society are under threat. It's a sentiment Michele also documents in places such as New Orleans, which has been tangled up in debates over the removals of Confederate monuments. Michele's story hits on a theme of ‘privilege lost’ that is at the forefront of today's discussions about race in America. 1
Neil Shea did a great job weaving a geopolitical and environmental thriller for the current age. With ice melting at the top of the world, nations are jockeying for position in strategic waters, with potentially dire consequences. Neil shines a light on this cold, remote part of the world with writing that is brisk and topical, while providing historical and geographical context to help readers understand how we got here. 1
If you think you have a good sense of world geography, this delightful read will likely surprise you. For instance, we all know South America is south of North America. Think again! 1
The immigrant experience is an old story, but Yudhijit Bhattacharjee tells a very new and very different version in this story about the stunningly quick rise of South Asian immigrants in America. Largely from India, well-educated, and fluent in English, this fast-growing group has become highly visible, notching significant success in fields like entertainment, science and medicine, high tech, business and now politics. 1
Last December a team of nail-tough Poles set off to Pakistan. They were determined to claim the last remaining great mountaineering challenge: to finally summit K2 in winter. But then all hell broke loose. 1
Writer Laura Parker and photographer Randy Olson travel the world to tell the story of plastic, exploring how a lifesaving invention has become a problem of immense proportion in just over two generations. Unlike any single story I’ve read, this one piece, through words, photographs, graphics and maps, helped me understand the scope of the plastic apocalypse — and the complexity of solving it. 1
Vaquitas, which are the smallest porpoises in the world, have fallen to the razor’s edge of extinction, with about 10 remaining individuals—but last month, scientists glimpsed mothers with calves in the Gulf of California. Vaquitas are collateral damage of the lucrative market for traditional medicine. Fishermen anchor gillnets to the ocean floor to catch fish called totoaba, whose valuable swim bladders are traded illegally to China to treat ailments such as arthritis. Vaquitas need to breathe air but get trapped in the nets and suffocate. “As long as there are some animals left, there’s hope,” Eva Hidalgo, science coordinator for the marine conservation group Sea Shepherd, told National Geographic earlier this year. “We need to do our best to make sure that they do have a chance of recovering, no matter how small that chance may be.” 1
In August, the Chinese government announced that its insurance funds would no longer cover traditional medicine containing pangolin scales, used to treat ailments from difficulty with lactation to poor circulation. All eight species of the scaly, anteater-like mammals are threatened with extinction. Their scales are used in more than 60 commercially produced curatives, according to the nonprofit China Biodiversity and Green Development Foundation. The National Medical Insurance and the Human Resource and Social Security Bureau also announced that products derived from hawksbill sea turtles, sea horses, coral, saiga antelope antlers, among others, would no longer be covered either. Daisy He, a Beijing-based lawyer with the international firm CMS, told National Geographic in an email, “The Chinese government and the Chinese public have noticed the importance of protecting these animals.” 1
Thanks to a new CITES resolution, elephants from Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, and South Africa can be exported only to other African countries where elephants live or used to live, unless it can be shown that sending them elsewhere would result in a conservation benefit for the species. This stops the controversial practice of selling wild-caught elephants to zoos around the world. Research has shown that elephants are highly intelligent, social creatures that create lifelong bonds with other animals. They mourn their dead and are capable of empathy, among other things. “It’s a huge victory for animal welfare that the abduction of baby elephants from their families to be held in zoos has been banned,” Frank Pope, CEO of the Nairobi-based nonprofit Save the Elephants told National Geographic at the time of the decision. 1
Technologists with the artificial intelligence company Synthetaic and National Geographic Labs, an initiative that helps harness technology for conservation, have developed a system that uses artificial intelligence and airplane-mounted cameras to identify and count animals in near-real time across huge distances. The researchers have already successfully scanned both Garamba National Park, in Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Lewa Wildlife Conservancy, in Kenya. And for the first time, scientists detailed using a handheld gene sequencing device called MinION to determine the species of shark fins in a fish market northwest of Mumbai. This gizmo can also can be used to identify ivory, pangolin scales, and other illegally traded wildlife products. “The MinION could be a game changer in that it can be used by wildlife officials locally,” Shaili Johri, a post-doctoral biology researcher at San Diego State University, told National Geographic in an email. 1
The cow is a domestic animal which is considered useful to mankind.It is used as livestock mainly for providing various dairy products like milk, ghee and cheese.It is found in various colours, shapes and sizes around the world.In India, the cow is regarded as a sacred animal by Hindus and worshipped by them from ancient times.It has two ears and eyes each, one big nose, two sharp horns, a long tail and four limbs.It eats fresh grass, husk, grain and vegetables.Cow’s milk is very nutritious and beneficial for human consumption. 0
Mother Earth has given us many gifts. One of them is trees. Trees are very important to us. Many of our tribes live inside forests which have trees.  Trees provide us timber to make furniture. Wild animals depend on trees for food and shelter. Trees help to prevent soil erosion and floods. They give out Oxygen and make the Earth clean and cool. Many products such as paper, gum, rubber etc are obtained from trees.  Trees reduce pollution and increase rain. Birds make their nests on trees. So friends, SAVE TREES by not cutting them and make them happy. 0
 Amber, lustrous, fat, the bear glances at me and my family, clustered with our tents, and saunters nonchalantly past. It’s here, on the Alaska Peninsula—the 500-mile arm of wilderness stretching between the Pacific Ocean and Bristol Bay—where I think most about the abundance inherent in a healthy landscape, and where I think most about what is currently at stake. 1
“In a place that is home to so many lasts, the last great salmon run, the last intact brown bear habitat, so much rides on the pristine nature of the ecosystem,” explains Drew Hamilton, a former staff member of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. “Putting a mine and a port, power plant, and workers in areas with these bear densities is a recipe for disaster.” 1
When behavioral ecologist Liz Derryberry saw a news report of coyotes crossing the Golden Gate Bridge in March, she immediately thought of her birds. For over a decade, Derryberry has studied the white-crowned sparrow and how urban noise has disrupted and degraded the species’ ability to communicate. 1
“I was excited that someone was able to collect such great information on a rare event. It showed how quickly animals can recover,” says Sue Anne Zollinger, a behavioral physiologist at Manchester Metropolitan University in the U.K. 1
Ultimately, the rapidity at which the sparrows recovered is a promising sign for the species’ ability to cope, says Derryberry. Finding ways to reduce noise, such as creating traffic-free zones or times within cities, might be a simple, straightforward way to help urban wildlife. 1
WITH TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS, quarantines, and social-distancing rules dragging us through another season, the pull to escape is stronger than ever. Federal public lands just got a big boost from the passing of the Great American Outdoors Act, signed into law August 4, 2020. It will pump $9.5 billion dollars into repairs and maintenance of national parks, forests, wildlife refuges, and recreation areas. 1
Whether run by the local, state, or federal government, easily accessible open spaces are key, especially now. “City parks have never been more important to relieve stress and anxiety, improve our physical health, and connect with nature and each other,” says Regas. 1
The pandemic is a problem and natural areas are part of the solution. Outdoor activity and fresh air contribute to physical and emotional health, but the CDC recommends sticking close to home, as traveling long distances may contribute to the spread of COVID-19. Here are a few of our favorite urban oases across the country. 1
The Sun gives us light. My teacher says that it is a ball of fire. So it keeps us warm and gives us heat. My mother dries our clothes in the sun. Plants make their food with the help of sunlight. When the sun rises it becomes day and when it sets it becomes night. The sun rises in the East and sets in the West. Every day morning I look at the sun through my window. The sun rises early in the morning even before I get up. I like a sunny day as I can play outside with my friends. If there is no sun it will be dark everywhere. So I like the sun very much. 0
Magnetism made visible: That describes virtually every feature on the sun, from sunspots to soaring structures called loops. Loops easily reach the height of ten Earths. Energy generated by the dynamics of smaller loops is likely the source of the corona's mysterious heat. The superheated gases that form the sun, mainly hydrogen and helium, exist in an electrified state called plasma. Below the surface, plasma can push and drag magnetic field lines. But when lines are strong enough to arc out, wildly conductive plasma follows. 1
I visited my village for a wedding ceremony, it was a very interesting traditional wedding of my cousin. A lot of our extended families came around. I ate a lot of ‘tuwo’ and ‘miyan kuka’, our traditional meal.Later in the day, I went to the village market and also visited the Emir palace where I saw some old men wearing the same types of cloth and I asked my mother who are they? My mummy told me that they are called ‘Dogarai’;(the kings men).My grandparent’s compound is very big. My grandfather has rams, goats and Chicken on a small piece of land where he is raising them.I really enjoyed the visit to my village. 0
Once I went to a place filled with trees, laughter and joy. My father told me that place was called a Park. There were many rides such as see-saw, slide, merry-go-round and swing. It was really fun to explore a place like that. So even I joined the fun. I slid down the slide...WHOOOO. I swang on the swing....SWISH...SWISH. I went round and round on the merry-go-round...GO...GO...GO. I went up and down on the see-saw...TAY...TAY..TAY. I met several friends in the park. All were running around and playing. I saw many beautiful butterflies and insects. There were many birds singing. I am very lucky that the park is near my house. I just love going to the park. 0
I have a pet rabbit. Her name is Bunny. She is very cute. She plays with me. She hops when she is happy. We play running race. She runs very fast and wins. She loves to eat carrots. I keep her in a big and beautiful basket. Every day morning when I get up I run to the basket to greet my bunny. When I call her she shakes her ears and looks at me with her beautiful eyes. I love my pet rabbit very much. 0
Most pups love to play, whether it’s chasing balls, engaging in a game of tug-of-war, or tearing that squeaky toy to smithereens. For humans, playing with a dog usually lifts our spirits; in fact, science shows that dog owners laugh more often than cat owners. 1
This as-yet-unidentified species of wolf likely began to hang around human settlements in Germany or Siberia between 20,000 and 40,000 years ago, snagging garbage and leftovers. The less-fearful individuals in the pack likely lost their wolfish demeanors, such as skittishness and shyness, and evolved over time into the happy, friendly, and loyal domestic dogs that warm our hearts and hearths. 1
The stone streets of the village were quiet and empty this early morning, as they had been for the past several months since Greece’s strict quarantine measures had taken effect. But unlike other mornings, conversation at the bakery centered around news that a tourist couple and their daughter had shown up on the island. They had sailed from France to Greece and were staying in Oia. 1
Greece has been lauded for its swift and effective response to the novel coronavirus threat. Immediately following the confirmation of the first three cases of COVID-19 on February 27, and before a single death was recorded, Greek authorities started putting in place restrictions on large gatherings, including in educational and religious institutions. 1
For the most part, everyone followed these measures without complaint. But with the approach of the summer tourist season, compliance quickly turned to worry. More than a quarter of Greece’s GDP comes from tourism and the thought of losing out on the much awaited and much needed income from the millions of tourists who would arrive in Greece this year was terrifying for some. 1
My grandmother's name is lathika. She is 64 years old and stays with my grandfather at our home in Alwaye. She was a teacher. During vacation I stay with them.Everyday morning I go to temple with my grandmother.she makes yummy dishes for me. Her soup and french fries are my favourite. I enjoy doing activities  with her. She also got lots of interesting stories for me. She helps me when i fight with my mom and dad. Some times I help her in kitchen.She  is my best friend.i love her so much. 0
The person I like the most in the world is my mother. She is very beautiful, kind and lovely. I came out from her stomach. I drank her milk. She takes so much care of me. I tell everything to her. She solves all my problems. She is the best person in the world. She takes care of me when I am sick. She teaches me well. She corrects my mistakes. She does whatever I want. I love my mother. 0
Tiger is the national animal of India. It’s one of the most beautiful animal on earth and are found in thick jungles. They have Orange skin with beautiful black vertical stripes on it. They are very fast in their actions .They hunt deers, cattles etc for their food and sometime attack humans too. They are also good swimmers and can even climb trees. I always remember the dreadful Sherkhan who always tries to attack Mougli. Sadly, Tigers are hunted by us for their skin, teeth, bones etc. Sometimes, tigers are caught from the wild and kept in Zoo’s and also trained to be used in circus for entertainment. Today tigers are included in the endangered species list. Therefore we should not allow anyone to hunt them and should not disturb their habitat that is forest. 0
My hobby is reading books .Whenever I gets free time, I read books and I enjoy it.  My teacher always tells us that reading is very important for children as we gain lot of knowledge through it. My parents also buys books for me and now there is a small library in my home. There are lots of books about freedom fighters, warriors, kings,  etc. available there. Last time when I won the school proficiency, my aunty gifted me a full collection of great fairy tales. My favorite books are Mahabharata and 5001 fantastic facts. Reading also helps me to gain confidence and  prepare for  school quiz competitions. 0
I have a pet animal. My pet animal is a cat. Her name is Kitty.She is big with white and brown in colour. She has a long tail. She has four kittens.They all are very cute.All of them are white in colour. Fish is her favorite food.I give her milk  every day.She  can climb the trees.She likes to play in my bed.I like to play with my Kitty.I love her very much. 0
